# FYW Course Reflection

## Madeline Turnipseed

Before taking this course, I had very limited knowledge of Digital Reading and Writing.  To be completely honest, I did not even realize it was its own field of study. The first skill I gained from taking this course was how to use text editing applications other than Microsoft Word.  Because Microsoft Word is so universally known and used, many people just stick to it and do not explore or even consider another option.  In this course I was introduced to Atom.  I am a perfectionist when it comes to the way my work looks, therefore I always spend far too much time formatting and editing the way my writing looked.  I am always concerned with having proper formatting, and it can often be quite distracting.  With Atom, I am able to create a document without having to worry about the formatting aspect, because my computer does it for me.  Atom involves a small number of codes or computer commands, which are very easy to learn and they make the writing process much quicker and simpler.  Another advantage of Atom, or other alternative text editing applications, is that they create the file in Markdown format, which can then be converted into any different type of file.  The document can be sent and opened in any other application, making it much more accessible to the audience, because after all, most writing is meant to be shared.  

Another skill that I learned from this course is how to use GitHub.  GitHub is an online website on which you can create a free account.  Once you have created your account, you can either type documents straight onto the website, or you can upload files from other platforms.  GitHub is highly beneficial if you want to collaborate with other people on a work.  You have the ability to add other editors to your document where they can view it and make changes, or they can just leave you suggestions.  GitHub also makes it very easy to publish your documents by making your works open to the public whenever they are complete.  

During this course, I not only learned what a virtual machine was, but I also learned how to effectively operate one.  Operating a virtual machine on your computer essentially allows you to work on another computer through the cloud.  The specific virtual machine that we worked with was Vagrant because it can be easily accessed and used.  Using the virtual machine creates a safe environment for all your work, and also ensures that it will backed up.  You will never lose your files because they can be retrieved or pulled back down from the cloud where they have been automatically saved.  GitHub also pairs very nicely with a virtual machine, such as Vagrant.  If a file has been created on GitHub, through a few simple commands on your virtual machine, the file can be sent to any other computer.  Essentially, you push the file out into the cloud, and whoever you want to access it can pull the file onto their computer.  Once the file has been pulled, it will automatically be downloaded and saved onto their computer, where they can make any changes they wish to make.  They can then either keep the file for their own use or they can push it back into the cloud in order for the original creator to access the changes that have been made.  In a situation where a group of people are working together, it is helpful to be able to clone identical files onto each person's computer.   

The final skill I learned from this class is how to create a digital edition of a document and how to effectively read something digitally. I learned how to use Terminal in order to manipulate a digital text.  First we accessed our digital machine through our terminal.  Then we logged into the virtual machine and pulled several git files from our teacher onto our computers.  Once they were downloaded onto our computers, we were able to open them through Atom, and make any changes to the files containing codes in order to apply them to our specific passages.  These codes allowed me to turn my passage into one big string.  I then was able to split that string into individual sentences.  Once the string had been split, I created an index, and asked the computer to assign numbers to each sentence.  This allowed me to pull and examine or edit each individual sentence.  I used a program in terminal called scala to apply the codes in order to manipulate my passage.  I used programs to spell check my passage, and I was also able to digitally read the passage.  The codes told the computer to determine how many times different words appeared throughout the passage.  This skill is helpful for reading even longer works in order to help you gain at least some information without having to read the entire work.

Because of this course, I am now much more efficient at using my computer and i am able to utilize many digital tools that will be helpful in my future workplace.  I have a lot of basic information, and through practice, and the internet, I will be able to advance my skills even further.                     
